---
layout: post
title:      "Extending What I'm Capable Of"
date:       2017-10-05 19:44:29 +0000
permalink:  extending_what_im_capable_of
---

I decided to learn to code to extend what I am capable of doing. Last week I got an assignment that we needed to scan and organize roughly 3000 field documents into various folders on a google drive that would be connected to a gis map. Old me would haved dreaded at the thought of scanning 3000 documents and navigating the various folders on the google drive to place the document in its correct location. New me saw this problem and thought: **How can I write a program that will make this easier for me?** I got to work. Using my computer, a whiteboard, and alot of stack overflow I was able to build a google app script that could take files that I scanned onto my personal google Drive and place them in one of the 100s of folders on my company's shared drive. The process started out small, move one file to one folder. Got it, good. **What's next?** Okay, **how do I take these five files and place them into five different folders?** Gonna need a file naming convention that my program can read and act on. Simple enough. Now using that convention I have to move these files to the correct folders. Gonna need a lot of if statements. **Where am I sending my files to?** Gonna have to create an array of folder IDs to call on.  **Got it?** Alright lets test this thing out. Lots of bugs. **Why did I even do this?** I got this far I might as well continue, lets ask Stack Overflow.  One by one, the bugs vanished until finally it worked. I got it to work and not just okay great it worked, but it worked the way I thought it out to work. It was my first true taste of programming a real solution that ultimately benefited a company. Just last week I was making Tic Tac Toe. Its daunting at first to think of a project like that and wonder how am I ever going to pull it off. I accomplished that project the same way I ultimately am going to learn web development: tiny steps, alot of failure, and help from others. 
